GSP001

Creating a Virtual Machine


What you'll do
- Create a VM with the Cloud console.
- Create a VM with the gcloud command line.
- Deploy a web server and connect it to a VM.



Prerequisites
- Familiarity with standard Linux text editors such as vim, emacs, or nano.


Task 1. Create a new instance from the Cloud console
In this section, you create new predefined machine types with Compute Engine from the Cloud console.

In the Cloud console, on the Navigation menu (Navigation menu icon), click Compute Engine > VM Instances.

This may take a minute to initialize for the first time.

To create a new instance, click CREATE INSTANCE.

There are many parameters you can configure when creating a new instance. Use the following for this lab:

Field	Value	Additional Information
Name	gcelab	Name for the VM instance
Region	<REGION>	For more information about regions, see the Compute Engine guide, Regions and Zones.
Zone	<ZONE>	Note: Remember the zone that you selected to use later. For more information about zones, see the Compute Engine guide, Regions and Zones.
Series	E2	Name of the series
Machine Type	2 vCPU	This is an (e2-medium), 2-CPU, 4GB RAM instance. Several machine types are available, ranging from micro instance types to 32-core/208GB RAM instance types. For more information, see the Compute Engine guide, About machine families. Note: A new project has a default resource quota, which may limit the number of CPU cores. You can request more when you work on projects outside this lab.
Boot Disk	New 10 GB balanced persistent disk OS Image: Debian GNU/Linux 11 (bullseye)	Several images are available, including Debian, Ubuntu, CoreOS, and premium images such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Windows Server. For more information, see Operating System documentation.
Firewall	Allow HTTP traffic	Select this option in order to access a web server that you install later. Note: This automatically creates a firewall rule to allow HTTP traffic on port 80.
Click Create.

It should take about a minute for the VM, gcelab, to be created. After gcelab is created, the VM Instances page lists it in the VM instances list.

To use SSH to connect to the VM, click SSH to the right of the instance name, gcelab.

This launches an SSH client directly from your browser.


